doc/../device_guide/nrf54l: added KMU basics info page (#19407)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/nrf54l/kmu_basics.rst

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_basics_kmu:

Introducion to KMU key provisioning
###################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The nRF54L devices are equipped with a Key Management Unit (KMU) that facilitates secure and confidential storage of keys.

> This feature is crucial not only for private keys but also for public keys, as the :re:`KMU can directly transfer a key to the CRACEN RAM<ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_cracen_peripherals>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is crucial not only for private keys but also for public keys, as the :ref:`KMU can directly transfer a key to the CRACEN RAM<ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_cracen_peripherals>`.
```
missed this - to fix the build

Even when keys must pass through addressable RAM, the KMU significantly reduces the risk of key exposure.
Therefore, you should use KMU for managing secrets whenere possible.

Revocable keys
**************

Keys can be set as invalid for further use with a revocation policy (RPOLICY), marked as ``revoked``.
For some technical solutions, a few keys of the same key type (for example, generation 0, 1, 2) might be provisioned.
At any given time, only one generation should be active.
If a key generation is compromised, it should be revoked to prevent its use.
The specifics of the revocation scheme depend on the technical solution, but it is recommended to designate one generation as non-revocable (``locked``) to prevent a Denial of Service (DoS) attack on the key's availability for the solution.

Locked keys
***********

> Locked keys should be permanently available for use, with an RPOLICY of ``locked``.

Reviewer 2: Setting key policy as 'locked' disables possibility to invalidate given key.

Author: should -> are

> Provisioning keys for the bootloader

Author: this is generic. (no need to change this on NSIB will be officially supported).
the next sentence is MCUboot spcific.

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_basics_kmu:

Introducion to KMU key provisioning
###################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The nRF54L devices are equipped with a Key Management Unit (KMU) that facilitates secure and confidential storage of keys.
This feature is crucial not only for private keys but also for public keys, as the :ref:`KMU can directly transfer a key to the CRACEN RAM<ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_cracen_peripherals>`.
Even when keys must pass through addressable RAM, the KMU significantly reduces the risk of key exposure.
Therefore, you should use KMU for managing secrets whenever possible.

> key types

Author: what you expect? note on like: `
In PSA abstraction key types are mapped by `psa_set_key_lifetime` attribute, see also <the reference>`

> key types

Reviewer 3: Sounds good

> key types
> *********

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key Types
*********

Different types of keys, such as revocable and locked keys, serve distinct purposes and have unique policies associated with their use and management.
```

we need a line of introduction after a heading

Revocable keys
==============

> Keys can be set as invalid for further use. The revocation policy (RPOLICY) must marked as ``revoked``for such key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keys that are no longer valid for use must have their revocation policy (RPOLICY) marked as ``revoked`` .
```

For some technical solutions, a few keys of the same key type (for example, generation 0, 1, 2) might be provisioned.
At any given time, only one generation should be active.
If a key generation is compromised, it should be revoked to prevent its use.
The specifics of the revocation scheme depend on the technical solution, but it is recommended to designate one generation as non-revocable (``locked``) to prevent a Denial of Service (DoS) attack on the key's availability for the solution.

Locked keys
===========

> Locked keys are permanently available for use, with an RPOLICY of ``locked``.

Reviewer: Suggestion for the 1st sentence: ``Once provisioned, locked keys are permanently available for use and cannot be deleted without erasing the device``.

Provisioning keys for the bootloader
************************************

> The bootloader can use multiple key generations for image verification (up to three for nRF54L SoCs).

Reviewer 3: Consider adding a note informing that bootloader uses nRF Security through PSA crypto APIs to access HW crypto features

Author: I think that unwanted info there - that's true but isn't necessary for understanding the content, ant it's a implementation detail.

Reviewer 3: We already added the:
```
In PSA abstraction key types are mapped by ``psa_set_key_lifetime attribute``, refer to :ref:`PSA Key programming model<ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_key_programming_model>`.
```
Should be good enough :)

To safeguard against unauthorized provisioning by attackers, you must :ref:`provision all key generations onto the device<ug_nrf54l_developing_provision_kmu>`.
You can adjust the number of key generations used for application verification by MCUboot with the ``CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KMU_SLOTS`` MCUboot's Kconfig option.

Limitations of operating without TEE (TF-M)
*******************************************

Operating without Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) has a few limitations.

Access to the KMU is restricted to secure code.

> When an SoC runs such applications, it maintains some control over the KMU.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When an SoC runs application code as secure, the application has some control over the KMU.
```

A provisioned key cannot be overwritten, and its content might be blocked from use at runtime (push block mechanism) by unexpected routines.

> However, applications can revoke a revocable key on the nRF54L15, nRF54L10, and nRF54L05 devices.

Reviewer: Suggestion for 2 last sentences: ``The revoked key might not necessarily belong to an application; it could, for example, belong to a bootloader.``

> KMU keys are vulnerable to revocation by applications running in secure mode.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Revocable KMU keys are vulnerable to revocation by applications running in secure mode.
```

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_basics_kmu:

Introducion to KMU key provisioning
###################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The nRF54L devices are equipped with a Key Management Unit (KMU) that facilitates secure and confidential storage of keys.
This feature is crucial not only for private keys but also for public keys, as the :ref:`KMU can directly transfer a key to the CRACEN RAM<ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_cracen_peripherals>`.
Even when keys must pass through addressable RAM, the KMU significantly reduces the risk of key exposure.
Therefore, you should use KMU for managing secrets whenever possible.

> Key Types

Reviewer 3: Consider linking `key_lifetime` from https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/nrf54l/cryptography.html#programming_model_for_referencing_keys (or refer to this doc section in another way). Thanks to that users would quickly notice that these sections are related.

*********

Different types of keys, such as revocable and locked keys, serve distinct purposes and have unique policies associated with their use and management.

Revocable keys
==============

> Keys can be set as invalid for further use. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Revocable keys can be set as invalid for further use which prevents from using or provisioning again the key slots.
```

Reviewer: Suggestion: ``(...) which prevents key slots from being used or provisioned again``.

Author: subject of invalidation is the key

The specifics of the revocation scheme depend on the technical solution, but it is recommended to designate one generation as non-revocable (``locked``) to prevent a Denial of Service (DoS) attack on the key's availability for the solution.

Locked keys
===========

Locked keys are permanently available for use, with an RPOLICY of ``locked``.

Provisioning keys for the bootloader
************************************

The bootloader can use multiple key generations for image verification (up to three for nRF54L SoCs).
To safeguard against unauthorized provisioning by attackers, you must :ref:`provision all key generations onto the device<ug_nrf54l_developing_provision_kmu>`.
You can adjust the number of key generations used for application verification by MCUboot with the ``CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KMU_SLOTS`` MCUboot's Kconfig option.

Limitations of operating without TEE (TF-M)
*******************************************

Operating without Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) has a few limitations.

Access to the KMU is restricted to secure code.
When an SoC runs such applications, it maintains some control over the KMU.

> A provisioned key cannot be overwritten, and its content might be blocked from use at runtime (push block mechanism) by unexpected routines.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A provisioned key cannot be overwritten, but its content might be blocked from use at runtime (push block mechanism) by unexpected routines.
```

However, applications can revoke a revocable key on the nRF54L15, nRF54L10, and nRF54L05 devices.

KMU keys are vulnerable to revocation by applications running in secure mode.
If you cannot trust the application running in the secure mode, you should provision locked keys.
This consideration is particularly important for applications without a TEE setup.
For this reason, you must evaluate the security aspects of your application.
You can consider the following options:

> * Supporting key generations with revocable keys - The advantage of this method is that the application can revoke a key generation if the private key is compromised or lost.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Supporting key generations with revocable keys - The advantage of this method is that the application or bootloader can revoke a key generation if the private key is compromised or lost.
```

Author: True in general. I doubt in adding bootloader there as this is not implemented yet.

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_basics_kmu:

> Introducion to KMU key provisioning
> ###################################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Introduction to KMU key provisioning
####################################
```

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_basics_kmu:

Introducion to KMU key provisioning
###################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The nRF54L devices are equipped with a Key Management Unit (KMU) that facilitates secure and confidential storage of keys.
This feature is crucial not only for private keys but also for public keys, as the :ref:`KMU can directly transfer a key to the CRACEN RAM<ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_cracen_peripherals>`.
Even when keys must pass through addressable RAM, the KMU significantly reduces the risk of key exposure.
Therefore, you should use KMU for managing secrets whenever possible.

Key Types
*********

Different types of keys, such as revocable and locked keys, serve distinct purposes and have unique policies associated with their use and management.

> In PSA abstraction key types are mapped by ``psa_set_key_lifetime attribute``, refer to :ref:`PSA Key programming model<ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_key_programming_model>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In PSA abstraction key types are mapped by ``psa_set_key_lifetime`` attribute, refer to :ref:`PSA Key programming model<ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_key_programming_model>`.
```

> In PSA abstraction key types are mapped by ``psa_set_key_lifetime`` attribute, refer to :ref:`PSA Key programming model<ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_key_programming_model>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In PSA abstraction key types are mapped by ``psa_set_key_lifetime`` function, refer to :ref:`PSA Key programming model<ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_key_programming_model>` for details.
```

Revocable keys
==============

> Revocable keys can be set as invalid for further use which prevents keys from being used or provisioned new keys to the same slots again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Revocable keys can be set as invalid for further use, which prevents the keys from being reused or new keys from being provisioned to the same slots.
```

> Revocable keys can be set as invalid for further use, which prevents the keys from being reused or new keys from being provisioned the same slots.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Revocable keys can be set as invalid for further use, which prevents the keys from being reused or new keys from being provisioned onto the same slots.
```

For these keys, the revocation policy (RPOLICY) must be marked as ``revoked``.
For some technical solutions, a few keys of the same key type (for example, generation 0, 1, 2) might be provisioned.
At any given time, only one generation should be active.
If a key generation is compromised, it should be revoked to prevent its use.
The specifics of the revocation scheme depend on the technical solution, but it is recommended to designate one generation as non-revocable (``locked``) to prevent a Denial of Service (DoS) attack on the key's availability for the solution.

Locked keys
===========

> Once provisioned, locked keys are permanently available for use and cannot be deleted without erasing the device

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once provisioned, locked keys are permanently available for use and cannot be deleted without erasing the device.
```

For these keys, the revocation policy (RPOLICY) must be marked as ``locked``.

Provisioning keys for the bootloader
************************************

The bootloader can use multiple key generations for image verification (up to three for nRF54L SoCs).
To safeguard against unauthorized provisioning by attackers, you must :ref:`provision all key generations onto the device<ug_nrf54l_developing_provision_kmu>`.

> MCUboot uses single key generation by default. You can adjust the number of key generations used for application verification by MCUboot with the ``CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KMU_SLOTS`` MCUboot's Kconfig option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, MCUboot generates a single key. 
You can configure the number of key generations that MCUboot uses for application verification with the ``CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KMU_SLOTS`` MCUboot's Kconfig option.
```

Author: use a single key

Reviewer: updated suggestion

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_basics_kmu:

Introducion to KMU key provisioning
###################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The nRF54L devices are equipped with a Key Management Unit (KMU) that facilitates secure and confidential storage of keys.
This feature is crucial not only for private keys but also for public keys, as the :re:`KMU can directly transfer a key to the CRACEN RAM<ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_cracen_peripherals>`.
Even when keys must pass through addressable RAM, the KMU significantly reduces the risk of key exposure.
Therefore, you should use KMU for managing secrets whenere possible.

Revocable keys
**************

> Keys can be set as invalid for further use with a revocation policy (RPOLICY), marked as ``revoked``.

Author: if the key has RPOLICY equal ``revoked`` then it can be invalidated (in run-time)
